Docs: Split SSO docs into HowTo/Explanation (#9801)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/guides/setup-single-sign-on-google-email.rst

=======================================================

.. include:: /shared/admonition-rtd-business.rst

This how-to guide will provide instructions on how to enable :abbr:`SSO (Single Sign-on)` with Google Workspace.
If you want more information on this feature,
please read :doc:`/commercial/single-sign-on`

Prerequisites
-------------

.. include:: /_includes/organization-permissions.rst

User setup
~~~~~~~~~~

Using this setup,
all users who have access to the configured Google Workspace will be granted a subset of permissions on your organization automatically on account creation.

You can still add outside collaborators and manage their access.
There are two ways to manage this access:

* Using :doc:`teams </guides/manage-read-the-docs-teams>` to provide access for ongoing contribution.
* Using :doc:`sharing </commercial/sharing>` to provide short-term access requiring a login.

Enabling SSO
------------

By default, users that sign up with a Google account do not have any permissions over any project.
However, you can define which teams users matching your company's domain email address will auto-join when they sign up.

You can enable this feature in your organization:

> * Navigate to :guilabel:`<Username dropdown>` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>` > > :guilabel:`Settings` > :guilabel:`Authorization`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Navigate to :menuselection:`"username dropdown" ⬇️ > Organizations > "Organization Name" > Settings > Authorization`
```

Writing this is actually difficult!

Author: Looks easier than before? I don't think we need the quotes though?

> * Select :guilabel:`Google` as the *Provider*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Google** in the :guilabel:`Provider` drop-down.
```

> * Specify your Google Workspace domain as the *Domain*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Specify your Google Workspace domain in the :guilabel:`Domain` input field and press :guilabel:`Save`.
```

How to setup Single Sign-On (SSO) with Google Workspace
=======================================================

.. include:: /shared/admonition-rtd-business.rst

This how-to guide will provide instructions on how to enable :abbr:`SSO (Single Sign-on)` with Google Workspace.
If you want more information on this feature,
please read :doc:`/commercial/single-sign-on`

Prerequisites
-------------

Organization permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To change your Organization's settings,
you need to be an *owner* of that organization.

You can validate your ownership of the Organization with these steps:

> * Navigate to :guilabel:`Username dropdown` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Navigate to :guilabel:`<Username dropdown> 🔽️` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>`
```

Author: Hrm, we're using this in a bunch of places, but I do think it's a good addition.

Reviewer: I thought of the emoji as an experiment, I haven't seen how it looks. So in case you apply it, we can decide what to do after?

Author: I'll leave it off for now, but it looks reasonable:

![Screenshot 2022-12-13 at 2 03 47 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25510/207453830-c7e3cba4-1026-4627-9a94-5c533f5bc178.png)

* Look at the **Owners** UI elements on the right menu.

If you'd like to to modify this setting and are not an owner,
you can ask an existing organization owner to follow this guide.

User setup
~~~~~~~~~~

Using this setup,

> all users who have access to the domain you configure will be granted a subset of permissions on your organization automatically on account creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all users who have access to the configured Google Workspace will be granted a subset of permissions on your organization automatically on account creation.
```

> Other users can also be added to your organization and given access in an ad hoc manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip::

   You can still add outside collaborators and manage their access. Organizations may for instance wish to give read-access to onboarding documents or grant temporary write access to external consultants.
   
.. seealso::

   :doc:`/commercial/sharing`
     Read more about methods for sharing **read** access to private sets of documentation without requiring a login for Read the Docs or your SSO provider.
```

This is a really good tip. This is like the real advantage of using SSO only for authentication, since it gives the flexibility of adding outside guest contributors and readers very easily.

Perhaps worth also mentioning secret share links?

Author: Yea, I thought about sharing here, so definitely a good addition. `seealso` might be too heavy inline, but we'll see how it renders.

* Select :guilabel:`Google` as the *Provider*
* Specify your Google Workspace domain as the *Domain*.

Configure team for all users to join
------------------------------------

You can mark one or many teams that users are automatically joined when they sign up with a matching email address.
Configure this option by:

* Navigating to :guilabel:`<Username dropdown>` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>` > :guilabel:`Teams` > :guilabel:`<Team name>`
* Click :guilabel:`Edit team`
* Enable *Auto join users with an organization's email address to this team*.
* Click :guilabel:`Save`

With this enabled,
all users that sign up with their ``employee@company.com`` email will automatically join this team.
These teams can have either *read-only* or *admin* permissions over a set of projects.

Revoke user's access to all the projects
----------------------------------------

By disabling the Google Workspace account with email ``employee@company.com``,
you revoke access to all the projects that user had access and disable login on Read the Docs completely for that user.

> .. seealso::
>     * Additional user management options are available at :doc:`/guides/manage-read-the-docs-teams`.
>     * To learn more about choosing a Single Sign-on approach,
>     please read :doc:`/commercial/single-sign-on`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. seealso::

   :doc:`/guides/manage-read-the-docs-teams`
     Additional user management options
   :doc:`/commercial/single-sign-on`
     Information about choosing a Single Sign-on approach
```

How to setup Single Sign-On (SSO) with Google Workspace
=======================================================

.. include:: /shared/admonition-rtd-business.rst

This how-to guide will provide instructions on how to enable :abbr:`SSO (Single Sign-on)` with Google Workspace.
If you want more information on this feature,
please read :doc:`/commercial/single-sign-on`

Prerequisites
-------------

Organization permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To change your :ref:`Organization <commercial/organization:Organizations>`'s settings,
you need to be an *owner* of that organization.

You can validate your ownership of the Organization with these steps:

* Navigate to :guilabel:`<Username dropdown>` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>`
* Look at the **Owners** UI elements on the right menu.

If you'd like to to modify this setting and are not an owner,

> you can ask an existing organization owner to follow this guide.

Reviewer 2: It seems we are repeating this text in multiple files. It may makes sense to convert it into a `.. include::`. I've already suggested using `guilabel` in the other one, and noticed that I have to suggest it here as well 😄

User setup
~~~~~~~~~~

Using this setup,
all users who have access to the configured Google Workspace will be granted a subset of permissions on your organization automatically on account creation.
.. tip::

>    You can still add outside collaborators and manage their access. Organizations may for instance wish to give read-access to onboarding documents or grant temporary write access to external consultants.

Reviewer 2: This tip tells you about something but does not tell you where to get more information about this.

There is a `seealso` after this tip, but it's not _inside_ which makes it seem unrelated to this tip.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`/commercial/sharing`
     Read more about methods for sharing **read** access to private sets of documentation without requiring a login for Read the Docs or your SSO provider.

Enabling SSO
------------

By default, users that sign up with a Google account do not have any permissions over any project.
However, you can define which teams users matching your company's domain email address will auto-join when they sign up.

You can enable this feature in your organization:

* Navigate to :guilabel:`<Username dropdown>` > :guilabel:`Organizations` > :guilabel:`<Organization name>` > > :guilabel:`Settings` > :guilabel:`Authorization`
* Select :guilabel:`Google` as the *Provider*

> * Specify your Google Workspace domain as the *Domain*.

Reviewer 2: We should make usage of `guilabel` here as well. BTW, did we already agreed on this? I thought we did, but I may be confused.

Author: Looks like Sphinx actually has `:menuselection:`! Perhaps we should also be using this? https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#role-menuselection

Reviewer 2: Looks good, yeah. I saw that @benjaoming mentioned in the style guide PR as well 👍🏼

Reviewer 2: I've never used it, so I'm not sure how it renders or even if our theme supports it 😄

Reviewer: The only thing `:menuselection:` doesn't help us with is the seperator. Sphinx docs suggest `>` and I think that sounds good (but then they use `-->` in the example which seems oddly long).

Reviewer: > I've never used it, so I'm not sure how it renders or even if our theme supports it 

If it doesn't support it, we are currently doing new releases, so we should be able to add an issue and fix that quite quickly :)

Author: This is addressed in the style guide now 👍

Author: This is how the two render:

<img width="661" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-15 at 3 08 32 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25510/207985949-c40b050a-40ec-4b55-bedf-ad9367f3358a.png">

Basically `-->` gets a nicer glyph. Both aren't styled though, and should probably be styled as the same as `:guilabel:` 🙃
